# 📄 Research Asset: Contrarian Marketing Podcast

* **Original Source Link:**  https://www.contrarianmarketingpodcast.com/p/sge-is-launching-or-is-it
* **Extraction Layer:** Supadata API Automation
* **Date Synced:** June 2026

## 📝 Raw Extracted Content
> Hello, and welcome to another episode of the Contrarian Marketing Podcast, where we give you ideas you might not be thinking about. Today, Eli and I are talking about whether SGE, Google's new search generative experience, is actually going to launch or not. To get right to the point, Eli, yes or no, are we seeing SGE out in the wild soon, or is it going to be stuck in beta forever? It's getting me launched on May 14th. Absolutely certain. Of that. However, what a launch means is highly debatable and could vary a lot. I think Google will have a 30 -minute session during Google I .O. where they talk about SGE, and then they're going to end it with, and go check it out live right now. It's there. And that's going to be the launch, and then the media is going to talk about this SGE thing. But they could do anything from having it show up on every search result to having it show up on very, very few search results or make you have the generate button. Or give you like a tiny, like have an ad and then have a tiny snippet of SGE and then hit generate. Because I think the whole point of SGE is they need to get Wall Street and the media off their backs. The New York Times keeps writing about how amazing perplexity is and ChatGPT, and they have headlines like, I haven't Googled anything in last year. All I do is ChatGPT. So they need to make that go away. And they also need Wall Street. These are people that maybe don't even use Google, but they hear what they hear. And they need to make them realize like, no, we're cool too. We also do generative AI. So I think they will have a launch, whether it impacts SEO or not, TBD. Interesting. I can't see that being true. However, what I think most people miss is that SGE is already live. Ta -da! Surprise! What do I mean by that? SGE is already live in small little chunks of specific parts of Google search. The best example that I always give is Google Shopping. So we use Google Shopping. Google now starts to show little. So first of all, they show product carousels, but they also show things like try this on with AI or customize your preferences where you can select styles you like. the the best example that i always give is google shopping so we use google shopping google now starts to show little so first of all they show product carousels but they also show things like try this on with ai or customize your preferences where you can select styles you like and brands you like and a lot of that is actually driven by sge it's not it's just simply not very prominently out there but google has written in a blog article a couple months ago or an official announcement that sge is being paired with google's shopping graph where they have i don't know billions i forgot the number right now but billions of different pieces of product information like you know the the actual product the reviews about the product and the shipping and returns all that kind of stuff and so they've been pairing that with ai or sge better said and they've been launching tiny little features that are not super prominent google search and so that is that is going to be my counter take to your to your point i'm not sure i actually don't think that google will launch sge publicly as we see it today i think what we see today will always stay in the beta but they will test specific features and then transplant them out of the beta into the wild where they live as you know almost like isolated features but not the whole sge package so i'm going to leave that there because i have some more thoughts and we also have a recent news information or a piece of news that says that google is thinking about launching sge as a premium paid feature can you see that eli can you see you know can you see the self -paying like five ten or twenty dollars a month to get sge no no no no one wants that i i again i really have to i think we have to understand what google's primary motivation here is really just to like show that they're the company in the future they do all this great stuff they they launched bard they screwed it up and then everyone like panned it then they launched gemini and like people are using it but you still have to go to another product so they're taking you from google search to using this other product i think they just have to launch sge within search and force people to use it so therefore the media has this whole conversation of like oh i tried sge and it's cool or stupid or whatever they're going to say putting it behind a paid wall is exactly like saying guess what we also have an llm but you have to using this other product. I think they just have to launch SGE within search and force people to use it. So therefore, the media has this whole conversation of like, oh, I tried SGE and it's cool or stupid or whatever they're going to say. Putting it behind a paid wall is exactly like saying, guess what? We also have an LLM, but you have to go to like gemini .google .com to check it out. That's what I can say as well. Yeah. I think there are two options to the premium feature. One is either we completely misjudge and actually a lot of people use SGE and Google sees really good traction or they're in a position where they're like, where they see that there are too many downsides to launching SGE. And so instead of launching it publicly, they put it behind, as you said, this paywall premium feature out of the public eye, not too much attention on it. And then they will slowly, I don't know, disintegrate it or put it so far behind the curtain that people forget about it. And then they will dismantle it and say it didn't work out. I could see both. And I also see like a little bit of a slowdown of the AI hype, especially when it comes to search and a little bit of like disappointment when it comes to AI features, AI content, all that kind of stuff. So do you think that we're going to come, like there's going to be actually a turnaround of this buzz where actually AI is not going to be, like has it disappointed us? Like is it going to fail? I think so. I think there's a lot of hype around AI search. I think there's like, there's a lot of uses for AI in general. We've had multiple debates on this, of course, but I think there's a lot of hype around AI search. And I think that most people like doing regular searches because there's still choice involved. So yes, perplexity and chat GBT and every other LLM that comes out there is interesting for certain searches, but for most searches, it's not because you need to have that diversity. Like it will just get this, become this frustrating thing in order for it to work correctly, which is like you ask a question and then the LLM needs to say, can you clarify, like what kind of shoe did you want? And like, that's all this back and forth when you just like search something and then you scroll down and you're like, Oh, I want this. Or like, now I see that I should have modified my search. There's a lot of that happening. And I think users still want that search. There is certainly a corner of search that can be answered by LLMs. And I think that's what SGE will cover. The interesting thing that I think SGE will do automatically is there's so many verticals, there's lists. Like, oh, I want this, or like, now I see that I should have modified my search. There's a lot of that happening, and I think users still want that search. There is certainly a corner of search that can be answered by LLMs, and I think that's what SGE will cover. The interesting thing that I think SGE will do automatically is there's so many verticals, there's listicles, and listicles are so commoditized and useless. Google's just going to become the listicle maker, and those aren't actually, in many cases, monetized searches. So, like, one of the best places in Las Vegas is not a monetized search, necessarily. Tons of listicles. Google will just be a listicle, so it's a pretty safe place for them to go. So, I think there are searches where SGE is great, and LLMs are great, and Google will do that, and then there are places where it's been way overhyped. Like, you can't, I don't think you can live your life on perplexity. It's interesting. I see perplexity, I think it's actually pretty good, and I hear more and more people saying, oh, I've been using perplexity since I started, I use it most of the time, but I also agree with you that there's a certain risk on having just a single answer to a question, because sometimes you just need different options, or you need different viewpoints, and Google needs to get that right. The sentiment is... Well, they do get it right. They've been getting it right for 25 years, and that's what users want. Like, think about it like this, like, you go to the grocery store, and you don't have like, one cereal, like, unless you're in Soviet Russia, like, you don't have one cereal, you have like, an entire row of cereals, because you want choice. And even if like, you know, everyone likes sweet cereals, even within sweet cereals, there's choices, and even if everyone likes circles that look like Cheerios, but there's only one brand that's called Cheerios, there's still choice, right? So like, we like choice, and LLMs take away choice, and I think they just fit when there doesn't need to be a choice. But is Google really getting it right? Like, have you... Like, when you see the reporting lately around Google, the sentiment is pretty negative. And so I'm not sure Google is getting it right. Google is providing choices, and I agree with you, to a certain degree, in some cases, that's pretty important. And Perplexity, and you .com, and all the other AI search engines, they will provide choice as well, right? I don't think you Google, or you search best vacuum cleaner on Perplexity, and we'll just give you one, it will probably give you a range. However, at the same time, too much choice can also be a bet. In some cases, that's pretty important. And in Perplexity and you .com and all the other AI search engines, they will provide choice as well, right? I don't think you Google or you search best vacuum cleaner on Perplexity and will just give you one. It will probably give you a range. However, at the same time, too much choice can also be a bad thing, right? I think it depends on how you put your choices together and what users really want. And in my personal opinion, AI has the potential to personalize choices much, much better for users so that they're, you know, within a set of what they would usually consider. Because I don't need to see the 20 best vacuum cleaners. I want the three best vacuum cleaners for my personal situation. And Google has a unique advantage to know exactly what my situation is because they have such a large footprint. But at the same time, they're not really capitalizing on it. So I feel like, I don't know, man, like when we talk about Google I .O., which is what you're hinting at in May when it comes to SGE launching publicly, I could still see Google announce announcing a premium feature that includes SGE. Or again, it will disappoint and they will not mention SGE once. But maybe just comment on how the beta is going and how successful that is, but not actually move on it. Yeah, I think that the answer to Google search not being good is to improve Google search. And there's, you know, there's challenges there, too, that Google's now scared if that they're too strict on like what they do algorithmically. It punishes the wrong people. So I don't think they go far enough. But I don't think the answer to Google search not being as good as it was 10 years ago is to blow up Google search. I think we still need choice. I think there's, again, there's areas of the internet which are answered with questions. Or sorry, answers, just regular questions. Like you want to know, like, I don't know what the capital of America is. Like you don't need 80 search results. You want to know, like, who's playing in the final four? You don't need 80 search results. These are just, you know, they're answers. But to date, like, what are the best places to go in Las Vegas? Listicles. Like, what's the best dating site? Listicles. Like, all these things to date, that's what we're doing. And I think Google needs to fix that and demote the sites that are just creating content for SEO and fix Google and fix, like, what users want. And again, not blow the whole thing up. It's a tricky situation because everybody is now creating content for SEO. Like all these things to date, that's what we're doing. And I think Google needs to fix that and demote the sites that are just creating content for SEO and fix Google and fix like what users want. And again, not blow the whole thing up. It's a tricky situation because everybody is now creating content for SEO and Google rewards content for SEO. Just today, new article from a site called Retro Dodo. I wasn't familiar with them before. I think they're writing about retro games. And apparently since September of last year, which is when the helpful content update rolled out, that site has been so decimated in organic traffic that now they have to close and probably lay off most of their staff. And that's the second article in a row after the House Fresh article, another affiliate driven site that also has human writers and expert content, but also got decimated by updates. So I don't know, man. I feel like Google is in a very tough spot. I don't know the answer to how to improve search, but I think we can all agree that search has been commercialized and Google goes as far as prioritizing Reddit results in the search results because Google, because people want answers from actual humans and not someone who's incentivized to cover, promote a certain product. A hundred percent. I just, yeah, I don't think we're, the entire model is going to change overnight. We just need to make incremental improvements. So we get into this place where it's what users want. I mean, I, it doesn't matter whether it's Google or whether it's Bing or it's Yandex. Like I think users want this search. I think they want like better results, even voice search. Like I, it just needs to be improved to the point that it gives users what they want. Yeah. I'm surprised that voice search isn't better yet across the board. Right. With these LLMs, I think there's a massive opportunity to improve it. Well, cause there's, there's no, like, you don't have the choice. And like, that's why I think voice search never took off. Like, do you remember? And I don't know if anybody still does this, but like when Alexa launched, it was all about, Oh, just tell Alexa what you want. You're like, Alexa, I need new detergent. And then like, I don't know, what does that mean? I want like tide detergent. I want, you know, arm and hammer detergent. I want this size. I want like the bulk one. I want the, like, you know, the buy, buy one, get four. Like what's the price. So that's why it never took off. Like imagine you can't do an e -commerce search with voice. So if you did, you would say, Alexa, I want. like tide detergent i want you know arm and hammer detergent i want this size i want like the bulk one i want the like you know the buy buy one get four like what's the price so that's why i never took off like imagine you can't do an e -commerce search with voice so if you did you would say alexa i want detergent alexa would be like okay what kind of detergent would you like today and then you're like i don't know you tell me so like that's a very frustrating conversation to have so that's why you do a search that's why you do a search on google you do a search on amazon and that's why i think llm search doesn't fulfill all those requirements when you ask a question and there's multiple answers well i mean there's different ways to go about this right one is to do a search and then provide multiple answers in the hope that the customer or the searcher finds what they're looking for or you have a conversation and ask them back what they're looking for or you give them you ask them questions to to narrow down their search that to me is the opportunity behind voice search but for some reason neither amazon nor apple or alphabet were able to really capitalize on llms when it comes to voice devices and assistants now i will say that amazon has announced to to use llms to to to really upgrade and improve the experience with alexa but so far it's pretty disappointing it could be so much more because there's so many use cases in which you in which a conversation actually makes sense and that also will take away from google search in my personal opinion i think google search still benefits from voice being so poor but i'm i'm very curious to see how that changes as voice assistants are getting better yeah i i don't think you realize how frustrating it could be to have that conversation like the thing you do when you do a quick search and you just like look at an amazon page and you say oh this is the product i want and because like that's the way i feel today or i trust the ratings or like this one doesn't look like it's made in america where this is a brand i trust like you do those things and it like you know seconds and you make that distinction and you decide to refine your search an ai which doesn't understand it would start and say would would you like the made in america brand and like you're like stop don't ask me a million questions right so i i think that's why it'll never take off because the all the answers to all those questions you never even ask yourself because you have an affinity towards something and you know yourself an AI, which doesn't understand it would start and say, would, would you like the made in America brand? And like, you're like, stop, don't ask me a million questions. Right. So I think that's why it'll never take off because the, all the answers to all those questions, you never even ask yourself because you have an affinity towards something and you know yourself. And I don't think an AI could ever know you again, unless maybe there's a point, maybe Neuralink is transplanted in our brains. And then based on all your past behaviors, you say, I need detergent. And then Amazon knows exactly what you want because you're, you know, you're a big spender and you're environmentally conscious and it shows up at your door. Right. But like, I don't think that any, that we're ever going to get to a point where, where AI will know us that well, that it'll get it perfectly without choice. Well, is that the same experience you would have in a store where you talk to a salesperson and they would ask you questions to, to better give you what you want? Yes. Very good point. But the choices in a store are not as many as they are on the internet. Which might be a good thing. I'm going to be honest. I think maybe there is too much choice on the internet. You already made a choice to go to a store. That's what I'm saying. Like you, you made a choice. Like I want to go to the store near me or I want to go to the store in this mall, or I want to go to the H &M or I want to shop at Walmart or I want to shop at Target. So now you've already narrowed down. So now the, those choices are there. When you do an internet search, it's like, are you a Target shopper? Are you a Walmart shopper? Are you an H &M shopper? Like it's kind of gets too diverse. I think there's maybe too much choice sometimes on the web and especially too much mediocre choice. A lot of listicles that I'm, that I'm seeing, they cover the same type of stuff, right? And so there's not a lot of additional gain or value from clicking through several listicles, right? Usually the top one has maybe, maybe one or two better choices than all the other ones, but it's, it's so marginal. It's not really a step change. And so again, I think, I think Google is facing a significant challenge here when it comes to how do we make this, how do we improve the quality here? And how do we get all these content creators or publishers, writers, et cetera, affiliates, how do we get them to, to put more work into their stuff? And I think that's why, why the helpful content has recently diminished so many different websites. I think because Google faces that, that challenge. I will, I will agree with you that in some cases, Google just giving the answer might be the better result. shares, writers, et cetera, affiliates, how do we get them to put more work into their stuff? And I think that's why the helpful content has recently diminished so many different websites. I think because Google faces that challenge. I will agree with you that in some cases, Google just giving the answer might be the better result. But in other cases where they try to do that and just summarize what the articles are saying, they're failing miserably on it. I recently posted an example on Twitter where Google showed a carousel of answers and got it horribly wrong. The question was, what technology did the internet make redundant? And it listed what jobs was it, what roles, not technology. And Google listed a carousel of things like, oh, stockbrokers and accountants, and obviously clearly false. And so I think there's also a big risk in Google solving that issue. Anyway, I think we got way off track, but... No, no, we did this. We answered the question. Both of us think Google sucks and it will be improved. I just think it will be improved through SGE. Nah. Well, let's leave it there. We got to leave something else. Let's leave it there, man. I'll give an answer in the next episode. Think about that. If SGE really improves Google search, man. I'll give you that. For the long tail, yes, absolutely. Google is terrible for long tail queries right now. And that will be an improvement. For mid to short head keywords, I'm unsure. Okay. Well, we'll find out very soon. We'll find out there. Eli, thanks for the talk. to you next week. Sounds good. Thanks, Kevin. We'll see you next time. Bye -bye.


