If you do the math and you plot it out on a spreadsheet, what you realize is that sales is not the way that you grow a business. It's actually pretension. And I did a spreadsheet on this. I will link it and show you why. But I'm obsessed with retention. And I'm going to walk you through what is my retention plan this year for my agency, Contact, which is an SEO agency. for my agency, Contact, which is an SEO agency. The first thing to know is that customers, their chances of churning drastically drops if they stay a customer of yours for 90 days. It's not altogether surprising because first impressions are everything. And so the first 100 days, you want to put together a plan to really earn the customer's trust and wow them and really almost like front load a lot of your work and effort. um not to say that you're not going to put an effort afterwards but it's okay to overspend in that those first uh few first few months so first thing i'm doing is putting together an 100 day plan of how to really wow customers and go above and beyond in the first 100 days to be able to win that trust and build that initial relationship number two speaking of building relationships i'm a big believer that crms are bullshit and the reason believer that crms are bullshit and the reason is because you can't automate human relationships and the more you try the more that you lose the value and the magic of human relationships so what i'm doing is i'm keeping it very simple because i think that genius is simplicity and i just have a spreadsheet with all of my clients on it I mark down the last time I talked to them. And every day I am just trying to call as many clients as possible and I'll put notes in the spreadsheet. And I'm trying to go no longer than a week without speaking to every one of my clients. So building relationships is super key. And what happens is that a lot of founders, as soon as they can get out of customer success, they do, because a lot of founders are scared of their clients. They do because a lot of founders are scared of their clients or some of them even resent their clients. But I love my clients because without them we wouldn't have a business and they are trusting us with their money and as a result we have the privilege of running the business that we do. So I think it's important for founders to stay in the details with their clients. They'd be checking in every week and what I do is when I talk to them I get feedback on what is going right, what is going wrong, and any issues that they have. what is going right what is going wrong and any issues that they have i immediately go and talk to the team and fix it for them and then go back to the client and that shows that i care about them and that even though issues will inevitably come up um i'm here to solve those problems quickly and that matters so much more than there not being any problems at all because that's never going to happen the other thing that i want to talk about is upselling as a retention strategy and this is a bit counterintuitive as a retention strategy and this is a bit counterintuitive but i spoke to another agency owner uh who is very successful and made a very good point where he says every three months i try to upsell my clients and it's not to make more money it's actually because that's one of the only ways to get an honest answer for them as to how the campaign is going because if the campaign is going really well and you try to upsell the client is going to be bought in and excited and at least consider it. However, if the campaign is not going very well, then they're probably going to say something like, Rob, I don't know, things are kind of tight right now. Not sure I can do that at the moment. And that's how you know that red flag, that was a churn risk. So in the same way that you ask for money to validate a product, you kind of have to keep doing that to validate. the strength of a relationship with your clients. And the other thing about upselling is it's not just about expanding the amount of money that a client is spending with you. It's also because if you are, for example, a marketing agency like we are, your work doesn't exist in a vacuum. And so we do SEO. However, when we drive traffic to a website, that website does not have good CRO. If that website does not have good CRO, it doesn't have email capture and nurture systems set up, well, that traffic is not going to end up being worth very much. And so by being able to offer these other services so that you can take more off the customer's plate rather than them having to go out and manage five, ten different vendor relationships, you are actually doing them a favor so long as the upsell is a complementary service that helps to bring them a greater ROI. The upsell is a complimentary service that helps to bring them a greater ROI. What's my next point? The last thing sounds really obvious, but it is just building a strong relationship with the client and trying to be generous and thoughtful. So as an example, I really like to get to know my clients because really, I think a lot of business owners, they kind of abstract themselves from their business and they start to lose the focus of what it is in reality and what it is is you are just working with other people just like yourself who have families and have lives and are trying to build businesses just like you and you have the opportunity to work with them build a relationship make a new um do something positive in their life and their business and if you do your job right you can actually change the business and help you change the life and that is a really phenomenal feeling and so what i what i want to do is get to know my clients on a more personal level and do thoughtful things like maybe send a gift that is personalized to that client to let them know that they matter to me meeting in person is also really really important it's hard to grow a strong relationship important it's hard to grow a strong relationship if you are just always behind a screen and so i think if you can have the proper mindset of loving your clients wanting to be wanting to be generous to them and treating their money as if it was like your grandmother's money was like your grandmother's money and acting accordingly then it's kind of hard to go wrong and so in summation you want to build an 100 -day plan to knock their socks off in the first 100 days you want to build strong relationships where we actually get to know them as a person and pay attention to who they are and have frequent check -ins and not just kind of pawn that job off onto your customer success person i think that you need to be in the details with your clients number three is the details of the clients. Number three is keeping the customer relationship management process extremely simple and just trying to talk to every one of your customers, clients as often as possible. And then the number four is just strategically upselling in a way so that you can add more value to the client while also validating that what you're currently doing is adding value to them at least in their perception. and that is how i'm thinking about retention this year let me know in the comments what you do to increase retention with your clients
